---
title: "MFKDF: Multiple Factors Knocked Down Flat"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024/06/mfkdf-attacks
date: 2024-06-05
short_desc: We find several attacks against the idea and construction of Multi-Factor Key Derivation Function (MFKDF) that was introduced by Nair and Song at USENIX 2023.
venues:
  - name: USENIX Security 2024
    my_presentation: 'no'
    youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vm8TAkwTVjM
    youtube_embed: https://www.youtube.com/embed/vm8TAkwTVjM?si=tdB7VwcbyGnI3ScF
  - name: UCSD Sysnet Seminar
    my_presentation: 'yes'
---

This talk presents multiple attacks against the Multi-Factor Key Derivation Function, a novel cryptographic primitive that was presented at USENIX’23.

It is based on our paper at USENIX'24, which is discussed in [this blog post](/posts/2024/08/mfkdf).

### Paper abstract

> Nair and Song (USENIX 2023) introduce the concept of a Multi-Factor Key Derivation Function (MFKDF), along with constructions and a security analysis. MFKDF integrates dynamic authentication factors, such as HOTP and hardware tokens, into password-based key derivation. The aim is to improve the security of password-derived keys, which can then be used for encryption or as an alternative to multi-factor authentication. The authors claim an exponential security improvement compared to traditional password-based key derivation functions (PBKDF).
> 
> We show that the MFKDF constructions proposed by Nair and Song fall short of the stated security goals. Underspecified cryptographic primitives and the lack of integrity of the MFKDF state lead to several attacks, ranging from full key recovery when an HOTP factor is compromised, to bypassing factors entirely or severely reducing their entropy. We reflect on the different threat models of key-derivation and authentication, and conclude that MFKDF is always weaker than plain PBKDF and multi-factor authentication in each setting.
